Add January 2023 newsletter (#1050)
USRSE/usrse.github.io: _posts/newsletters/2023-01-24-newsletter.md

We also want to thank two outgoing Steering Committee members who did not participate in the election, Daniel Katz and Chris Hill. Both are founding members of the US-RSE Association and US-RSE Steering Committee. They brought decades of experience to establish US-RSE, connect it to the broader research software community, and set US-RSE up for a bright future. Both Dan and Chris are still leading various community activities and initiatives, so we can expect to continue to benefit from their experience and leadership. 
   
<a name="conference2023"></a>
# **First US-RSE Conference in 2023 in Chicago**
We are excited to organize the first US-RSE Conference, October 16-18, 2023 at the University of Illinois, Chicago!

Thank you to all those who volunteered to act as a chair for the organizing committee. The chairs are:

- **General**: Sandra Gesing, Julia Damerow
- **Diversity**: Ludovico Bianchi, Tab Memmott, Lance Parsons
- **Outreach**: Caleb Jackson, Miranda Mundt
- **Program**: Kenton McHenry
- **Publication**: Charles Ferenbaugh, Torin White
- **Sponsor**: Angela Herring, Mahmood Shad, Chris Hill
- **Student**: Nicole Brewer, Carrie Brown

> If you'd like to volunteer to a particular committee, please let us know!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you'd like to volunteer for a particular committee, please let us know!
```

<!-- Can we make a form for this? Or reuse the previous one with different options? -->

<a name="sc-update"></a>
# **Steering Committee Recap**

> In November and December, the Steering Committee has been discussing moving to a new fiscal sponsor that will be able to better support our future financial sustainability.  The Steering Committee voted to apply to a new sponsor.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In November and December, the Steering Committee discussed moving to a new fiscal sponsor that would be able to better support our future financial sustainability.  The Steering Committee voted to apply to a new sponsor.
```

Author: While I agree, we've only applied, so we are under review. We can announce if/when we are approved.

    
The Steering Committee has also continued planning for the 2023 US-RSE Conference, including choosing chairs for the conference planning committees, discussing what benefits are appropriate to offer to conference sponsors, and reviewing costs.
    

> Discussions about securing funding for a community manager, executive director, organizational infrastructure, outreach efforts, and the US-RSE conference also continue, with a focus on refining a budget and the details of what paid positions would do for US-RSE.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Discussions about applying for funding for a community manager, executive director, organizational infrastructure, outreach efforts, and the US-RSE conference also continue, with a focus on refining a budget and the details of what paid positions would do for US-RSE.  
```

Biography: Dr. Joshua Greenberg is director of the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation’s Digital Information Technology program. Dr. Greenberg received his Bachelor of Arts in History of Science, Medicine and Technology from the Johns Hopkins University, and both Masters and Doctoral degrees from Cornell University’s Department of Science & Technology Studies.

He is an active member of the broader digital library and digital humanities communities, serving on a number of advisory boards and program committees, and maintains active research and teaching interests in the history and sociology of information technology, the dynamics of public engagement with expert knowledge, and the methodological implications of new digital technologies for research.

Dr. Greenberg has broad experience and understanding of the content and research needs of traditional scholarly communities as well as digitally-networked services and tools to support myriad forms of public engagement and participation.
    
_Stay tuned for more talks in the coming months, with talks from NIH and CZI expected!_

## US-RSE DEI-WG Speaker Series

> The US-RSE Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Working Group (DEI-WG) is working to bring to the US-RSE community quarterly visits from RSE professionals with vested interests or research into DEI in the RSE community at large. Our community pledges to continually educate ourselves through research on best practices focused on diversity, equity, and inclusion. The US-RSE is committed to providing an inclusive environment with equitable treatment for all and to promoting and encouraging diversity throughout the RSE community. We encourage everyone to suggest speakers and topics and are open to different formats and timelines of the events. Feedback is much appreciated.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The US-RSE Diversity, Equity, and Inclusion Working Group (DEI-WG) is working to bring the US-RSE community quarterly visits from RSE professionals with vested interests or research into DEI in the RSE community at large. Our community pledges to continually educate ourselves through research on best practices focused on diversity, equity, and inclusion. US-RSE is committed to providing an inclusive environment with equitable treatment for all and to promoting and encouraging diversity throughout the RSE community. We encourage everyone to suggest speakers and topics and are open to different formats and timelines of the events. Feedback is much appreciated.
```

<a name="events"></a>
# **Interesting Events and Opportunities**

## RDA's 10th Anniversary Events and Activities
    

> In 2023 the Research Data Alliance is celebrating its [10th Anniversary: ‘A Decade of Data’](https://www.rd-alliance.org/plenaries-events/events/%E2%80%98-decade-data%E2%80%99-celebrating-10-years-research-data-alliance). They are commemorating this important milestone with the community by organising a series of international, regional events and activities. Each month of 2023, from February to November, will be dedicated to a [specific theme](https://www.rd-alliance.org/plenaries-events/events/%E2%80%98-decade-data%E2%80%99-celebrating-10-years-rda/rdas-10th-anniversary-events-and) related to research data management of relevance to the RDA community. February's theme will be FAIR data, hardware, and software and includes a podcast on February 6 on the FAIR for Virtual Research Environments (VRE) Working Group. Registration for the events are free but required for webinars.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In 2023, the Research Data Alliance is celebrating its [10th Anniversary: ‘A Decade of Data’](https://www.rd-alliance.org/plenaries-events/events/%E2%80%98-decade-data%E2%80%99-celebrating-10-years-research-data-alliance). It is commemorating this milestone with the community by organizing a series of international and regional events and activities. Each month of 2023, from February to November, will be dedicated to a [specific theme](https://www.rd-alliance.org/plenaries-events/events/%E2%80%98-decade-data%E2%80%99-celebrating-10-years-rda/rdas-10th-anniversary-events-and) related to research data management of relevance to the RDA community. February's theme will be FAIR data, hardware, and software, and it includes a podcast on February 6 on the FAIR for Virtual Research Environments (VRE) Working Group. Registration for the events is free but required for webinars.
```

    
    
## Funding Opportunity from Alfred P. Sloan Foundation for Open Source Software ##
    

> The Alfred P. Sloan Foundation opened a [Call for Letters of Inquiry: Institutional Support for Open Source Software in Research](https://sloan.org/programs/digital-technology/ospo-loi) due February 15, 2023.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Alfred P. Sloan Foundation opened a [Call for Letters of Inquiry: Institutional Support for Open Source Software in Research](https://sloan.org/programs/digital-technology/ospo-loi), with responses due February 15, 2023.
```

# **Interesting Reads, Videos or Podcasts**

Items you may have missed on the blog and Slack:
    
  * Blogs and podcasts with US-RSE members
     * <a name="developer_stories_podcast"></a>[Developer Stories Podcast](https://rseng.github.io/devstories/posts/)
  * Blogs and podcasts from beyond US-RSE
     * <a name="code_for_thought_podcast"></a>[Code for Thought Podcasts](https://codeforthought.buzzsprout.com)
     * <a name="sustain_podcast"></a>[Sustaining Open Source Ecosystems Podcasts](https://podcast.sustainoss.org)
* The organizers of RSECon2022 have released a playlist with 38 videos so far 
    * <a name="https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PL27mQJy8eDHk---gHCapHwyVaWIkyORYj"></a>[RSECon2022 Playlist](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PL27mQJy8eDHk---gHCapHwyVaWIkyORYj)
* The Diátaxis framework aims to solve the problem of [structure in technical documentation](https://diataxis.fr)
* [11 Most In-Demand Programming Languages](https://bootcamp.berkeley.edu/blog/most-in-demand-programming-languages/)
* [Inclusive Scientific Meetings](https://500womenscientists.org/inclusive-scientific-meetings)
* [Build Inclusive Products](https://makeitfable.com/)

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [What Do We (Not) Know About Research Software Engineering?](http://doi.org/10.5334/jors.384), by Lamprecht et al.
* [The Key to Scientific Breakthroughs? Improving Access to Open Source Software]
(https://cziscience.medium.com/the-key-to-scientific-breakthroughs-improving-access-to-open-source-software-38f04c14accf), by the Chan Zuckerberg Initiative
* [Let's Open Source Diversity & Inclusion](https://youtu.be/hjVmfCrvTQE), video of talk by Demetris Cheatham at 2022 CZI Open Science Annual Meeting
* [Hunting for the best bioscience software tool? Check this database](https://doi.org/10.1038/d41586-023-00053-w), an article about a dataset funded by the Chan Zuckerberg Initiative that shows how research software and tools are used across disciplines, and helps developers gain credit for their work
* The latest [Research Software Alliance (ReSA) newsletter](https://preview.mailerlite.com/f1z6i7z9o4/2134973586060875982/p0t5/) includes a lot of research software community news and events.

```

<a name="outreach"></a>
# **US-RSE Outreach**

## RSEs in eScience 2022 Workshop Report

> If you were unable to come to Salt Lake City, UT, for the inaugural [RSEs in eScience Workshop](https://us-rse.org/rse-escience-2022), the Outreach Working Group posted a report on the talks and breakout discussion. [See for yourself](https://us-rse.org/2023-01-17-escience-2022-report-out/)!

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you were unable to come to Salt Lake City, UT, for the inaugural [RSEs in eScience Workshop](https://us-rse.org/rse-escience-2022), the Outreach Working Group has posted a report on the talks and breakout discussion. [See for yourself](https://us-rse.org/2023-01-17-escience-2022-report-out/)!
```

> The Outreach Working Group is looking for volunteers to help with organizing workshops, birds of a feather (BoF), symposiums, etc. Roles span from organizer to reviewer to speaker and more.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Outreach Working Group is looking for volunteers to help with organizing workshops, birds of a feather (BoF), symposiums, etc. Roles range from organizer to reviewer to speaker and more.
```

<a name="financials"></a>
# **See how we are doing financially**

We currently organize US-RSE finances transparently via the [Open Collective](https://opencollective.com/usrse) project. You can see all budgets, expenses, and contributions on [this site](https://opencollective.com/usrse). Anyone can go to the site and see the current accounts, income and expenses and ….. (if the mood takes you and you are able) **[make a tax-deductible gift to US-RSE](https://opencollective.com/usrse#category-CONTRIBUTE)**!

<a name="involved"></a>
# **Get Involved**

There are lots of ways to get involved with the US-RSE community. Of course, you can [join us on Slack](https://us-rse.org/join). We’re also looking for ideas and help in many other places. See our [list of projects](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1jjVD0WkeeWZJI6yqSKyMdIjtClzolsxv75RkpLju17I/edit?usp=sharing) and let us know how you’d like to help. Help with things like the Website Committee, Social Media, Community Engagement, Fundraising, and Newsletter are all needed and welcome.

> As always, we thank everyone who is already contributing for their help in shaping and growing the organization. In 2021 we added nearly 300 new members. There are still many more RSEs and friends of RSEs we would like to help connect and support. If you are interested in helping in any way please feel free to join in.

Reviewer: why are we talking about how many new members we added in 2021? Let's talk about the larger number we added in 2022 instead!

Author: Great point! We added 605 in 2022.

---
layout: post
title: US-RSE January 2023 Newsletter
subtitle: January 2023 
category: newsletter
tags: [newsletter]
---

In this monthly newsletter, we share recent, current, and planned activities of the US-RSE Association, and related news that we think is of interest to US-RSE members. Newsletters are also available on our [website](https://us-rse.org/newsletters/) alongside the growing resources and information on the US-RSE Association. To receive our newsletter, [join US-RSE](https://us-rse.org/join/).

In this issue:

* [Steering Committee Election Results](#elections)
* [First US-RSE Conference in 2023!](#conference2023)
* [Steering Committee Recap](#sc-update)
* [Community News (Funders Talk Series & DEI-WG Speaker Series)](#news)
* [Interesting Events and Opportunities](#events)
* [Interesting Reads, Videos or Podcasts](#reads)
   * [Developer Stories Podcast](#developer_stories_podcast)
   * [Code For Thought Podcast](#code_for_thought_podcast)
   * [Sustain Podcast](#sustain_podcast)
* [US-RSE Outreach](#outreach)
* [US-RSE Financials](#financials)
* [Get Involved](#involved)
* [Recent Job Postings](#jobs)

    

> <span style="color: black;">

Reviewer 2: This is a surprise, do we need to adjust the site's CSS somewhere? The previous newsletter didn't seem to need it.

Author: Good catch. I agree. I don't think it's necessary. Is it an artifact of hackmd or random some copy/paste?

Author: @sandragesing - do we need this?

Author: I removed it below. I think we're good without it.

Reviewer: I think it's something that was set intentionally in hackmd because Sandra has used colors at some point to indicate old vs new text ,so this was probably leftover from that

> <span style="color: black;">

Author: ```suggestion
```

<a name="reads"></a>
# **Interesting Reads, Videos or Podcasts**

Items you may have missed on the blog and Slack:
    
  * Blogs and podcasts with US-RSE members
     * <a name="developer_stories_podcast"></a>[Developer Stories Podcast](https://rseng.github.io/devstories/posts/)
  * Blogs and podcasts from beyond US-RSE
     * <a name="code_for_thought_podcast"></a>[Code for Thought Podcasts](https://codeforthought.buzzsprout.com)
     * <a name="sustain_podcast"></a>[Sustaining Open Source Ecosystems Podcasts](https://podcast.sustainoss.org)
* The organizers of RSECon2022 have released a playlist with 38 videos so far 
    * <a name="https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PL27mQJy8eDHk---gHCapHwyVaWIkyORYj"></a>[RSECon2022 Playlist](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PL27mQJy8eDHk---gHCapHwyVaWIkyORYj)
* The Diátaxis framework aims to solve the problem of [structure in technical documentation](https://diataxis.fr)

> * [11 Most in Demand Programming Languages](https://bootcamp.berkeley.edu/blog/most-in-demand-programming-languages/)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* [11 Most In-Demand Programming Languages](https://bootcamp.berkeley.edu/blog/most-in-demand-programming-languages/)
```

<a name="financials"></a>
# **See how we are doing financially**

We currently organize US-RSE finances transparently via the [Open Collective](https://opencollective.com/usrse) project. You can see all budgets, expenses, and contributions on [this site](https://opencollective.com/usrse). Anyone can go to the site and see the current accounts, income and expenses and ….. (if the mood takes you and you are able) **[make a tax-deductible gift to US-RSE](https://opencollective.com/usrse#category-CONTRIBUTE)**!

<a name="involved"></a>
# **Get Involved**

There are lots of ways to get involved with the US-RSE community. Of course, you can [join us on Slack](https://us-rse.org/join). We’re also looking for ideas and help in many other places. See our [list of projects](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1jjVD0WkeeWZJI6yqSKyMdIjtClzolsxv75RkpLju17I/edit?usp=sharing) and let us know how you’d like to help. Help with things like the Website Committee, Social Media, Community Engagement, Fundraising, and Newsletter are all needed and welcome.

> As always we thank everyone who is already contributing for their help in shaping and growing the organization. In 2021 we added nearly 300 new members. There are still many more RSEs and friends of RSEs we would like to help connect and support. If you are interested in helping in any way please feel free to join in.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As always, we thank everyone who is already contributing for their help in shaping and growing the organization. In 2021 we added nearly 300 new members. There are still many more RSEs and friends of RSEs we would like to help connect and support. If you are interested in helping in any way please feel free to join in.
```

16.  [Research Software Engineer](https://main-princeton.icims.com/jobs/16019/research-software-engineer-ii/job?mode=view&mobile=false&width=696&height=500&bga=true&needsRedirect=false&jan1offset=-300&jun1offset=-240): Princeton University, Princeton, NJ _Posted: Dec 02, 2022_
17.  [Research Software Engineer](https://www.medel.com/en-us/about-medel/usa/us-careers#id_f9ebe38d-2f17-64e6-80bd-ff09000c6e28): MED-EL Corporation, Durham, NC _Posted: Dec 02, 2022_
18.  [Lead Software Engineer](https://ssecenter.cc.gatech.edu/jobs/): Georgia Institute of Technology, Atlanta, Georgia _Posted: Nov 29, 2022_
19.  [Senior Software Engineer](https://ssecenter.cc.gatech.edu/jobs/): Georgia Institute of Technology, Atlanta, Georgia _Posted: Nov 29, 2022_
20.  [Software Engineer](https://ssecenter.cc.gatech.edu/jobs/): Georgia Institute of Technology, Atlanta, Georgia _Posted: Nov 29, 2022_
21.  [Web Developer and Cloud Architect](https://ucla.in/3G6aqcZ): UCLA, Office of Advanced Research Computing, Can be remote/flexible _Posted: Nov 22, 2022_

> <span style="color: black;">

Author: ```suggestion
```

<a name="financials"></a>
# **See how we are doing financially**

We currently organize US-RSE finances transparently via the [Open Collective](https://opencollective.com/usrse) project. You can see all budgets, expenses, and contributions on [this site](https://opencollective.com/usrse). Anyone can go to the site and see the current accounts, income and expenses and ….. (if the mood takes you and you are able) **[make a tax-deductible gift to US-RSE](https://opencollective.com/usrse#category-CONTRIBUTE)**!

<a name="involved"></a>
# **Get Involved**

There are lots of ways to get involved with the US-RSE community. Of course, you can [join us on Slack](https://us-rse.org/join). We’re also looking for ideas and help in many other places. See our [list of projects](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1jjVD0WkeeWZJI6yqSKyMdIjtClzolsxv75RkpLju17I/edit?usp=sharing) and let us know how you’d like to help. Help with things like the Website Committee, Social Media, Community Engagement, Fundraising, and Newsletter are all needed and welcome.

> As always, we thank everyone who is already contributing for their help in shaping and growing the organization. In 2021 we added nearly 300 new members. There are still many more RSEs and friends of RSEs we would like to help connect and support. If you are interested in helping in any way please feel free to join in.

Author: ```suggestion
As always, we thank everyone who is already contributing for their help in shaping and growing the organization. In 2022 we added overy 600 new members. There are still many more RSEs and friends of RSEs we would like to help connect and support. If you are interested in helping in any way please feel free to join in.
```

> As always, we thank everyone who is already contributing for their help in shaping and growing the organization. In 2021 we added nearly 300 new members. There are still many more RSEs and friends of RSEs we would like to help connect and support. If you are interested in helping in any way please feel free to join in.

Author: ```suggestion
As always, we thank everyone who is already contributing for their help in shaping and growing the organization. In 2022 we added over 600 new members. There are still many more RSEs and friends of RSEs we would like to help connect and support. If you are interested in helping in any way please feel free to join in.
```
